All right, let's get started more
and talk a little bit more about
the classes and the namespaces.
You usually see me beg one
a big image of me.
But now I'm just keeping myself
in the short so that we can
focus on the screen itself.
So let me take you on to this one.
So what we're going to study,
we are still going to study the same
diagram which we drawn.
So notice here, this is a class
and I wrapped it
up inside a box for a reason.
This is also an object.
And this is also an object.
Now each object possess some
of their properties.
Properties like their variable names.
Like I have a property like
what's the color of my tea shirt
in this case you can see it,
it's yellow, bright yellow.
What's other property?
It fits me.
So there might be some size, like
large, extra large,
some size does fit me.
These are all properties
of this tea shirt.
So exactly like this, there are
some properties of this object.
Like this is a smaller object,
this one is having more
width than the length.
This one is having a different color.
And what you have also noticed
that each of this object although
came from this class itself,
possess some different properties,
but are not actually
overlapping anybody else's property.
Each object has its own entity
that's called as namespace.
I repeat this again.
Each object is its own entity.
It can possess its own features,
its own properties,
but doesn't bother other ones.
This is exactly the namespaces
and the concept of namespaces
in in the world of object
oriented programming demo time.
Of course it is.
Let's write some code.
I love this code part.
Let's create a new file and we
will create so many files
in this section because we have
so many topics to cover.
Let's call this one as namespace.
This namespace topic
in itself is a pretty in depth.
It actually exists
in Linux ecosystem as well.
But anyways I'll not go
too much depth of that.
So let's go with the namespace,
let's create another class and we'll
call this one as simplechai.
There we go.
And this time we'll not just write
pass, we'll declare some variable.
By the way, in the class you
can have your variables, you
can have your functions,
generators, whatever you want.
It's just a wrapper and inside
the wrapper you can have as
much or anything that you want.
I want to have an origin.
So most of the chai the origin is
in my country India.
Now let's see how we can create
different objects from it.
First of all, I would love
to print one statement.
So I can just go ahead
and say, this chai.
And just by putting a dot, you can
access whatever you have named
inside it, whatever the values are.
So right now I just want to print
what's the value inside the origin.
And again, there's
no guesswork there.
It's super easy to guess what's
going to be printed out.
So I'll just go ahead and say, there
we go, no exception, no surprises.
We get this one.
Now let's go ahead and create
a two different object.
And by the way, it's not like
you have to declare all
the objects or all the variables.
And by the way, when the variables
goes inside the class,
we call them as objects.
So from here onwards we'll
refer to them as objects,
not objects, properties.
My bad, sorry for that.
So inside the class, whenever
the variable goes, we
call them as properties.
So from here onwards we'll
You can go ahead and add more
property to this just by putting up
a dot and says let's just say is hot
is the new property I want to add.
And I can just put up a value.
This can be a boolean, this
can be anything else.
And now I can access it directly by
pointing towards the class.
And as soon as I put
up a dot, I have more access
to this one, which is ishot.
Now you might be wondering, can
I go ahead and print this value?
Let's go ahead and ask this.
Although there was no suggestion,
but if I go ahead and run this, you
can see we got the true value here.
So now this class
technically has two values.
One is origin, one is
is hot, which is true.
Now let's see that if I can go ahead
and create more objects out of it.
Creating objects from class chai
the way how we create that.
Let's just say we want
to have a simple masala.
This one can come from the chai,
so all the values goes inside it.
It can have by default
as an axis of origin.
Can have an axis of is hot.
Would you like me to go with that?
Of course.
You want me to go with this.
So I can just say masala and as
soon as I put up a dot, this one
is going to say origin origin.
And I can have a duplicate
of this and say is hot.
Although we don't get
the suggestions, but this
is all what we have.
Let's go ahead and run this.
Do we have this?
Yes.
So the first two are Actually
being printed by the class itself.
The rest of the two are actually
coming up from the masala itself.
And just to make sure that we
get this idea, so I'll just go
ahead and simply go like this
and have a value just like this.
And we will say masala space.
And we can actually copy this copy
and we'll paste this one masala.
And there we go.
Just a second.
I'll just arrange the things
so that we get the idea.
This one is easier
to understand that okay, this is
masala India and masala true.
All right, can I go ahead and create
more chai just like this?
And what happens if I go
ahead and change some value?
So for example, that's
interesting case.
If I go ahead and take this masala
and I say ishot and I turn it as
this was previously
true, but I turn it as false.
So what do you think will happen?
I want to print the two things.
The first one is directly
accessed with the chai.
So I'm accessing the value
in the chai.
So this is class value.
So I'll just go ahead and say class.
This is printing of the class.
And what do I want?
Why are you having.
I forgot to put up a comma.
There we go.
And I also want to print
this masala as well.
So let's go ahead and copy
this and print this.
So in line number 14, I have
changed a value which is is hot
inside the masala.
We'll actually draw
the diagrams as well.
And this one is here.
So my question is, if I change
anything inside an object,
should this change be propagated
inside the class as well?
This is like saying I do have a value
here which is is underscore hot.
And if I go ahead and change this
value here somehow, should this
change be propagated here as well?
That's the question.
And we will answer that by
just running the file.
If I run this notice here, it
says this masala India and true.
That's okay.
After that we see the class
is still true, but in
the masala it becomes false.
So this proves the point that
each object is actually having
its own namespace which
doesn't affect other objects.
Also doesn't affect
the classes as well.
By default, if you wish, you can,
but by default it
doesn't change any value.
You can also go ahead
and add more values to it.
Just like this could be a color
changed and this could be a size.
So you can add more values
to this masala as well.
How do we do that?
Super easy, super simple.
Now that you have an object Masala,
you can simply go ahead and say
that I want to add a flavor to it.
Flavor.
And feel free to add whatever
the flavor you want to add.
I will call this flavor as Masala.
There we go.
Now I can just go ahead and print
this simply masala flavor.
My bad flavor.
And super easy, super simple concept.
I hope you are focusing now
on the concept so we
get the new property.
But this property doesn't
exist in the class.
So all I'm saying is coming back
onto the point that you can go ahead
and have your own unique properties.
You can go ahead and change
the properties that
you got from the class.
Just like we did it here.
We got the property of blue, but we
changed this property to purple.
And that's okay.
It doesn't affect other object.
It doesn't affect
the original class as well.
If any new object will be
created from this class,
they will be exactly same.
So we can just still
go ahead and do this.
And That is all.
That is all the concept
of the namespaces.
I hope you got it.
It was a fun lecture.
Please do rate us and let's
catch up in the next one.